JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
President Trump says the time is
right for
a new immigration law, as he
prepares to lay
out his priorities in his first
address to
Congress.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Tuesday:
In a new executive order, the
White House
promises renewed commitment to
historically
black colleges and universities
across the
nation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And taking the
school bus across
the border -- the kids who make
the trek from
Mexico to the U.S. every day for
school.
LIZETT PRECIADO, Student: It was
good to be
able to go to school there.
And, like, there's more
opportunities to study
and to have a better job in the
future.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's not a State
of the Union
address, but it has most of the
trappings.
Tonight offers President Trump
his biggest
moment since the inauguration to
tell Americans
what he wants to do as the
president, and
possibly to turn around
impressions after
a bumpy beginning.
John Yang begins our coverage
from the White
House.
JOHN YANG: President Trump spent
today getting
ready for prime time, tonight's
address to
a joint session of Congress.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
It's a busy day, and I guess
tonight will
be a rather busy night.
We look forward to it.
JOHN YANG: Senior administration
officials
say he will tout the campaign
promises he
has kept in his five weeks in
office and offer
an optimistic look into the
future.
In a FOX News interview that
aired this morning,
he acknowledged some shortfalls,
specifically
on his travel ban order.
DONALD TRUMP: I give myself an
A-plus, OK,
effort.
But that's, you know, results
are more important.
In terms of messaging, I would
give myself
a C or C-plus.
JOHN YANG: In a lunch with
television anchors
and reporters, including the
"PBS NewsHour,"
Mr. Trump said the time may be
right for an
immigration reform bill if
there's compromise
on both sides.
On health care, officials said
the president
would outline guiding principles
tonight,
but offer no specifics on
repealing and replacing
Obamacare tonight.
On Capitol Hill, some Republican
conservatives
balked today at what party
leaders are considering.
REP.
JIM JORDAN (R), Ohio: We didn't
tell the voters
that we were going to repeal
Obamacare, but
keep the Medicaid expansion.
We didn't tell the voters we
were going to
repeal Obamacare and keep some
tax increases.
And we certainly didn't tell the
voters we
were going to repeal Obamacare
and start a
whole new entitlement.
JOHN YANG: Despite the
divisions, House Speaker
Paul Ryan was upbeat.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: This
is the plan that we are all
working on together,
the House, the Senate, the White
House.
So there aren't rival plans
here.
We're all working on this
together with the
administration.
I feel, at the end of the day,
when we get
everything done and right, we're
going to
be unified on this.
JOHN YANG: Administration
officials said Mr.
Trump won't offer many specifics
on tax reform,
but will address the need to
improve the nation's
aging infrastructure.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: What
I'm anticipating is an
optimistic and upbeat
portrayal of what America could
be, with the
kind of changes that we are in
the process
of implementing, as you know, on
regulatory
reform, on repealing and
replacing Obamacare,
comprehensive tax reform, and,
of course,
the Supreme Court.
JOHN YANG: Democrats say
Americans should
listen carefully to get the real
message.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: We
fully expect the president will
offer populist
platitude after platitude.
But talk is cheap.
Tonight, the president is likely
to use populist
rhetoric to mask a hard-right,
special interest-driven
agenda.
Democrats and the American
people won't be
fooled.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump will also
push his plan
to beef up the military, raising
defense spending
by $54 billion next year and
cutting domestic
spending and foreign aid.
On FOX News, he said his
policies can spur
the economy and raise new
revenue.
DONALD TRUMP: You look at the
kind of numbers
we're doing, we were probably
GDP of a little
more than 1 percent.
And if I can get that up to 3 or
maybe more,
we have a whole different ball
game.
JOHN YANG: Today, the president
two more executive
orders, beginning the process of
overturning
an Obama era waterway protection
rule, and
returning oversight of aid to
historically
black colleges and universities
to the White
House.
President Trump was still adding
to his speech
late this afternoon, including
considering
whether to add language about an
immigration
compromise that he talked about.
Officials say the speech could
run as long
as an hour and 20 minutes.
And although he's calling for
deep cuts in
domestic spending next year,
officials say
the speech will include a call
to the government
to expand manned space
exploration -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John, you and I
were at that
lunch with the president today
and other television
anchors and correspondents.
We were all, I think, struck by
the fact the
president brought up the issue
of an immigration
bill and talked about how he's
decided this
is something the country is
ready for.
JOHN YANG: That's right.
He seemed to be -- this was a
trademark campaign
issue, talking tough on illegal
immigration,
and he seemed to be open.
According to senior
administration officials
who are familiar with his
thinking, he thinks
the time is right because people
are tired
of this issue.
They're tired of us talking
about it.
They want to solve it.
These officials say that the
president believes
that the tough enforcement of
immigration
laws that he wants to carry out
could help
the effort by reassuring those
that this is
not going to be opening up the
borders, that
he is still tough on
immigration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Some
needle-threading to be
done here.
John Yang, we thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At the other
end of Pennsylvania
Avenue, Lisa Desjardins is on
Capitol Hill
in Statuary Hall.
Lisa, what are the members that
you have spoken
with today, what are they
expecting from this
speech?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, I think
it's more about
what they hope to get from it
tonight, Hari.
Some Republicans and Democrats
both told me
that they think the president
needs to reach
out specifically to those who
oppose him.
They're feeling the divide.
They're feeling more rancor from
their constituents.
Also, Hari, a lot of kind of
regular order
Republicans would like more
details from the
president.
This is a place where words need
to become
reality.
That means details.
But, at the same time,
Republican leaders
who spoke with the president say
they don't
expect those details in this
speech tonight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And put this
in the context
of the timing that is at work,
considering
what the Trump administration
has put forward
so far.
LISA DESJARDINS: This is an
important moment,
especially here at the Capitol,
Hari.
It's an interesting one, because
right now
two of the president's major
pushes are hitting
obstacle courses and speed
bumps.
That's, of course, the ACA
repeal and replace.
Republicans have not yet formed
a final plan.
And there is disagreement.
And then the president's own
budget, which
he outlined yesterday, many
Republicans have
a lot of problems with it.
Specifically, Senate Republican
Leader Mitch
McConnell himself made a rare
open statement
of disagreement with the
president today when
asked if he could support those
potential
cuts to the State Department and
diplomacy
that the president is thinking
about proposing.
Mitch McConnell said he
personally is against
that, and also he doesn't think
anything like
that could get through the
Senate.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Lisa Desjardins,
thanks so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: President
Trump said he followed the
advice of his generals
and defense secretary in
ordering a U.S. military
raid in Yemen that left a Navy
SEAL dead.
He was asked about it in his FOX
News interview.
DONALD TRUMP: Well, this was a
mission that
was started before I got here.
This was something that was, you
know -- just,
they wanted to do.
And they came to see me.
They explained what they wanted
to do, the
generals, who are very
respected.
Again, this was something that
they were looking
at for a long time doing.
And according to General Mattis,
it was a
very successful mission.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The raid had been
in the planning
stage for months.
It took place five days after
Mr. Trump took
office.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
president's Cabinet
gained a commerce secretary
today.
Billionaire investor Wilbur Ross
easily won
confirmation in the Senate last
night.
After being sworn in by Vice
President Pence
this morning, Ross said he hopes
the Democratic
support he received is a sign of
bipartisan
progress to come.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The nominee for
director of
national intelligence is
promising his full
support for a congressional
investigation
into Russian meddling in last
year's election.
Former Indiana Senator Dan Coats
had his confirmation
hearing today, and told
lawmakers they will
get all the intelligence they
need.
DAN COATS, National Intelligence
Director
Designate: Russia has a long
history of propaganda
and trying to influence various
nations' cultures
and elections.
It's a very key issue that we
understand fully
what has happened and how it
happened, and
have a full report on that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Coats also sought
to assure
senators that his office will
not be swayed
by political pressure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.N.
Children's Agency
Today laid bare the harrowing
conditions facing
women and children at migrant
camps in Libya.
UNICEF said armed groups have
turned the camps
into makeshift prisons, with
widespread beatings,
rapes and starvation.
The report said, "For the
thousands of migrant
women and children incarcerated,
the centers
are living hellholes, where
people are held
for months."
JUDY WOODRUFF: The FBI now says
it is investigating
last week's shooting death of an
Indian man
in a Kansas bar as a hate crime.
That word came today after the
victim's body
was flown home.
Hundreds of family and friends
gathered to
mourn the 32-year-old engineer
in the southern
city of Hyderabad.
The case has touched off
widespread outcry
in India.
The gunman, who is in custody,
allegedly yelled,
"Get out of my country,"
according to a witness.
He said he thought the victims
were Iranians.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back in this
country, Attorney
General Jeff Sessions warned the
country faces
rising murder and violent crime
rates, and
he pledged to put bad men behind
bars.
In a speech to state attorneys
general, Sessions
said police have turned overly
cautious over
fear of what he called viral
videos.
JEFF SESSIONS, U.S. Attorney
General: The
Department of Justice has an
absolute duty
to ensure that police operate
within the law,
and if they violate the law,
they have committed
a crime, just as much as any
other citizen
who commits an assault.
But we need, so far as we can,
in my view,
to help police departments get
better, not
diminish their effectiveness.
And I'm afraid we have done some
of that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: FBI figures
show that violent
crime rates have been rising of
late, but
are still far below the levels
of the 1980s
and early '90s.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Former President
George W.
Bush says racism is tainting the
political
climate in Washington, under
President Trump.
Mr. Bush tells "People" magazine
in an interview:
"I don't like the racism and I
don't like
the name-calling, and I don't
like the people
feeling alienated."
Still, President Bush says he's
optimistic
the country will come through
it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On Wall
Street, Target and
other retailers slumped, and led
the broader
market lower.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 25 points
to close at 20812.
The Nasdaq fell 36 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped six.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
a look ahead
to President Trump's first
address to a joint
session of Congress; White House
efforts to
support historically black
colleges; students
who live in one country and go
to school in
another; and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Our lead tonight
is the platform
being given the new president by
the new Republican
majority Congress, to talk to
them and the
American people about what his
plans are.
We look ahead now with four who
also joined
us for last month's
inauguration, Amy Walter
of The Cook Political Report,
presidential
historian Michael Beschloss,
Karine Jean-Pierre,
a senior adviser to MoveOn.org
during the
2016 elections.
And Matt Schlapp, he's chair of
the American
Conservative Union.
And it's good to have you all
back together
again now that a little bit of
time has passed.
Matt, I'm going the start with
you.
You have been talking to the
folks in the
White House.
What do they think that the
president needs
to do tonight?
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White House
Director
of Political Affairs: I think
they think it's
going to be a huge television
audience.
And this is a president who
understands TV
and TV moments.
And I actually think they
understand that
he has got perhaps some of his
best opportunities
to talk to his biggest audience
about what
he sees for the vision of the
country.
I actually think he's going to
step back and
show people his vision of where
he wants to
go.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Karine
Jean-Pierre, what are
you looking for from the
president tonight?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, Democratic
Strategist:
Well, I'm hoping that he reaches
out to the
people who actually didn't vote
for him and
finally brings some unity.
He had an opportunity to do that
the last
time we were all together on
Inauguration
Day, and he didn't.
He totally went the opposite
way.
And so, if that could happen, I
think that
will be a step forward.
But, so far, he has not appealed
to that,
to the majority of the folks who
didn't vote
for him or didn't vote for him
at all, which
is a good 70 percent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, does that
sound like something
that would make sense for him to
do tonight?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Yes,
to show maybe that magnanimous
side that we
have yet to see.
There are some indications that
that may happen
tonight.
Whether it's as overt as maybe
some folks
would like to see, I don't know.
But, normally, what you think of
as -- when
you think about a State of the
Union address
is, it's like a Pinterest board,
right, for
the president.
He puts on all his hopes and he
puts them
out there, and you don't get
everything you
want when you put it on a
Pinterest board,
but at least you're giving folks
an idea of
your big overall vision.
But there's something else that
he needs to
do tonight, too, which most
presidents, even
this early on, don't have to,
which is to
give the members of his own
party some real
structure.
And it was interesting today.
In The New York Times, Tom Cole,
Republican
member of Congress from
Oklahoma, longtime
member, he said today the
president must become
an active participant in the
legislative process.
He's saying, we members on the
Republican
side, we're with you, but you
need to show
not just where you want the
country to go,
but you need to show us where we
need to go.
It's not enough for the speaker
and the majority
leader to give us marching
orders.
That leadership comes from you.
And we want to hear that
tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Michael
Beschloss, compared
to where other presidents have
been at this
stage early in their presidency,
are we hearing
from this president, compared to
others, enough
about what he wants to do and
how he's going
to get us there?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS, Presidential
Historian:
Well, he hasn't had an
opportunity like this
before, because what a State of
the Union
is, is this odd contraption that
no other
country has, because our
presidents are chiefs
of state and they're also prime
ministers.
And those two roles are
oftentimes very contradictory.
So the State of the Union since
Theodore Roosevelt
has offered the president the
chance to say,
these are things I want out of
Congress, here
is my laundry list.
But, at the same time, it gives
a new president
an opportunity to be seen as a
president of
the United States in Congress.
He gets very few opportunities
like this.
As Matt Schlapp said, he's going
to have an
enormous audience tonight.
If he uses this opportunity not
only to say,
this is what I want
legislatively, but also
those of you who are skeptics
about me, even
in my own party, those of you
who voted against
me, I can function as a
president of all the
people.
This is one setting in which he
has that opportunity.
We will see If he takes it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Matt Schlapp,
is there
a sense that the president
himself feels that
he should be reaching beyond the
base?
We know the people who voted for
him, the
polls are showing they like what
he's doing
so far.
He's having difficulty, though,
with others.
MATT SCHLAPP: I think it's
important to go
back and think about the fact
that Donald
Trump is a very different kind
of Republican.
He already starts off this
presidency having
gotten the support of a lot of
working-class
voters who don't always vote
Republican, but
he doesn't always like to
critique, well,
you got to reach beyond.
He's already said, hey, I have
already reached.
We have got a brand-new
coalition building
here.
But I do think it's a fair point
that he ought
to reach out to all Americans.
He's everyone's president.
We're going to have a national
security emergency
before too long.
It's inevitable.
And that's when we look to our
president as
commander in chief to have that
moment.
And these moments are special,
too, because,
with a big audience, he has a
chance to tell
people, here is why I have been
elected and
here's what I'm going to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are people --
Karine Jean-Pierre,
you were saying people look for
him to reach
beyond.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are they willing
to give him
a second look?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: I'm not
sure, because
every policy that he's put
forward, executive
orders that we have seen in the
past month,
has been very divisive and dark.
It hasn't shown that people can
trust what
the president is going to be
doing, just looking
at the traveling ban, which is a
religious
test, which has really destroyed
many people's
lives.
I mean, you go from the gag
order, which is
one of the first things that he
did, which
really attacked women's health
issues on a
federal international level as
well.
So, there are a lot of things
that we have
seen that is troubling.
So, I'm not sure if he's going
to get there.
There's always this conversation
about, is
Donald Trump going to be able to
press that
reset button?
If I got a dime for every time
somebody said
that to me, I would be a
billionaire and probably
be part of the Cabinet.
And it's just -- we have not
done that.
So, I think there's lack of --
distrust, and
we're just not sure if that's
going to happen.
And nobody really actually
thinks it's going
to happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Amy, I
thought -- I was
struck today with the lunch with
the president
that he did bring up on his own
immigration
bill, the time is right, maybe
both sides
are ready to compromise.
It was a very different message
from what
we heard when he was talking
about the travel
ban.
AMY WALTER: Well, this is what's
going to
be fascinating, because your
question was
a really important one: Are
people ready to
listen to it?
And what we're seeing right now,
we know we
have a very polarized country.
This election highlighted it,
and it continues
to reign today.
But when you ask Democrats, this
was the most
recent Pew poll, what do you
want your Democratic
leaders to do in Congress, and
75 percent
of Democrats said, fight
everything that Donald
Trump does.
They want Democrats to put up a
fight.
And so, even if the president
reaches out,
and even if there are members on
the Democratic
side that say, yes, maybe I
could work with
you on this, they're going to
get pushback
from their base.
We talked a lot about the
Republican base,
how committed they are to the
president, but
the Democratic base is very
committed to digging
in against this president as
well.
That is the challenge for Donald
Trump now
going forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael
Beschloss, talk about
that a little bit, because some
presidents
have used opposition to their
benefit.
Others presidents have been
overwhelmed by
opposition.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Yes,
absolutely.
Franklin Roosevelt, you know,
the patron saint
of Democrats, in the late 1930s
said, my opponents
are unanimously -- unanimous in
their hatred
for me, and I welcome their
hatred.
He used them as a foil.
You might see Donald Trump doing
that.
But Donald Trump ain't no FDR,
and he wasn't
elected by a landslide.
And this is a much more dicey
proposition
than had he been elected, let's
say, with
upward of 400 electoral votes
and been able
to go into individual
congressional districts
and saying, I'm a landslide
president.
This is someone who wasn't
elected with a
popular vote majority, a pretty
puny electoral
vote majority.
So it's a little bit hard to see
him taking
the strategy that might have
been more appropriate
had this been an election
decided much more
resoundingly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matt.
MATT SCHLAPP: The only thing I
would say to
that is, is I think the number
that matters
-- you're right about the
popular vote and
the electoral vote, but this
wrong-track number
has been very steep, very
negative for a very
long time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The country being
on the wrong
track.
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
There is something where
Americans are questioning
what America means and where
America is going,
and does it play a leadership
role, both from
a national security standpoint
and from an
economic standpoint.
The only thing I would say, I
couldn't compare
to the Depression at all, but
there is something
there that is affecting our
politics very
deeply.
And when Donald Trump looks very
serious and
very -- and is on offense on
trying the tackle
the basic economic questions in
the economy,
I think it's hard for Democrats,
because they're
used to occupying that lane.
And he's knocked them out of
that lane.
And they're trying to figure out
how to get
it back.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Karine, Matt has
a point, doesn't
he?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, but
reading from
a teleprompter for 45 minutes
doesn't make
you the president that we all
want you to
be.
It's basically he has to do
actions.
Right?
It's not just words.
It's actions.
And his actions haven't matched
up.
MATT SCHLAPP: Have you not seen
all these
actions?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
MATT SCHLAPP: I have seen a lot
of these actions.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: But they
have been very
divisive and dark actions.
Right?
And there's a reason why
millions of people,
a majority of people are in the
streets.
Right?
And we really -- he really has
to listen to
us, because it's a problem.
You can't continue being
divisive.
And he is, like you said, a
president for
all.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, can he do
what Karine
is saying and Matt is saying
he's already
-- he is...
MATT SCHLAPP: There's a lot of
actions going
on.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: Look, at this point
in 2009, about
75 percent of Americans said, I
think that
President Obama will deliver
change.
More people right now believe
that about President
Trump, 77 percent now saying, I
think that
Donald Trump can deliver change.
And by -- it's a plurality, not
a majority,
think that he's going to deliver
positive
change.
Now, Democrats don't believe
he's going to
deliver positive change, but a
plurality of
independents do and, of course,
a big majority
of Republicans do.
So on this idea that Matt is
talking about,
this -- about changing the wrong
track to
right track, there are more
people than not
that believe that, even though
they may dislike
him personally, he's going the
change things
in the right direction or bring
the right
kind of change.
That's where he's going to have
to perform.
Independents are a little more
willing to
give him the chance.
If he doesn't deliver, well, we
will see what
they do.
Democrats not as willing, and
Republicans
are all bought in.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael, it feels
like we're
coming back to that point about
how divided
the country is and just how
differently people
feel about this one man.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: I think
that's right.
And it could have been
different, frankly.
His inauguration, he chose the
path of playing
to his base, giving this very
dark speech
about what a mess -- that's not
the term he
used that day -- he used it
later on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, tonight,
they're saying
he's going to be uplifting.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: So, maybe
that will change.
And maybe this will be a
different moment
in this presidency.
It was fascinating what he said
to FOX News
about giving himself about a C
on messaging.
That would suggest that maybe we
will see
a speech tonight that is
different from what
we heard at the time of the
inauguration and
during this first month.
It would be absolutely
scintillating if that
happens.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's
something that everybody
is paying attention to tonight.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: That's for
sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As Matt said, the
White House
is expecting a big audience.
We thank all of you for being
here to look
ahead.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Our pleasure.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael
Beschloss, Karine Jean-Pierre,
Matt Schlapp, Amy Walter, thank
you all.
MATT SCHLAPP: Thank you.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can stay
with us this
evening by following Twitter and
right back
here at 9:00 p.m. Eastern for
our special
live coverage of the president's
address.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now: the role
of America's
historically black colleges, and
what could,
or should, be done to strengthen
them.
That was on President Trump's
agenda today,
and is the focus of our weekly
segment Making
the Grade.
As part of an effort to
celebrate Black History
Month, President Trump signed an
executive
order today aimed at helping
historically
black colleges and universities.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
HBCUs have been really pillars
of the African-American
community for more than 150
years, an amazing
job, and a grand and enduring
symbol of American
at its absolute best.
With this executive order, we
will make HBCUs
a priority in the White House,
an absolute
priority.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The order will
move the
government's program for
coordinating HBCUs
back directly under the White
House.
But the president didn't commit
any additional
funds to the schools yet, some
of which are
struggling financially.
Many presidents of HBCUs are in
Washington
this week, calling for $25
billion more in
the upcoming budget.
HBCUs were established after the
Civil War
to provide higher learning for
black citizens
who were deliberately shut out
of most universities.
Today, there are 100 HBCUS.
Nearly 300,000 students are
enrolled in them.
Every president since Mr. Jimmy
Carter has
issued executive orders on
HBCUS.
During President Obama's tenure,
he expanded
Pell Grants for schools overall,
but initially
approved tighter loan conditions
for black
colleges and never held meetings
with the
group.
It was often a rocky
relationship.
A number of HBCUs still are in
financial distress.
Johnny Taylor, president and CEO
of Thurgood
Marshall College Fund, which
helps fund HBCUs,
says the schools need more money
collectively.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR., President
and CEO, Thurgood
Marshall College Fund: We should
be very clear
that we want this administration
and the 115th
Congress to make good on the
money.
You cannot have mission without
HARI SREENIVASAN: After
President Trump's
meeting, his education
secretary, Betsy DeVos,
triggered some new criticism.
In a statement heralding the
HBCUs, she called
them -- quote -- "real pioneers
when it comes
to school choice."
Critics say her statement
ignores the long
history of segregation for black
students
and the underfunding of black
schools.
Let's take a closer look now at
the president's
executive order and the status
of these schools.
For that, we're joined by Johnny
Taylor, who
was at the meeting and is
president of the
Thurgood Marshall College Fund,
and Sophia
Nelson.
She's a journalist who follows
this, and is
the author of "E Pluribus ONE:
Reclaiming
Our Founders' Vision for a
United America."
Johnny, let me start with you.
Why is it important for this
initiative to
be back under the White House?
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: You know,
at the end
of the day where you live
matters in so many
ways, right?
When we were in the Department
of Education,
this office, it was three levels
down.
It didn't even report to the
secretary of
education.
To me, that said volumes about
what the former
administration and frankly
former administrations
thought about HBCUs.
We judge you -- more about what
you say, it's
about what you do.
And so moving us to the White
House sends
the message to the entire
country that HBCUs
matter, and they matter to the
person -- frankly,
the most powerful person in the
country, the
president of the United States.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sophia Nelson,
it's symbolic.
But symbols are important.
But it's not cash.
And cash and funding is what a
lot of these
presidents are here lobbying for
right now.
SOPHIA NELSON, Author, "E
Pluribus ONE": Here's
what I'm encouraged by.
Yesterday, in the press
conference, Sean Spicer
talked about they were going to
do what he
called a review of the agencies.
Now, I happen to understand the
way this works,
having worked in the federal
government and
dealing with HBCUs, as I have in
my past life
as an attorney.
The money that I think they're
going to find
is mostly in the R&D space.
They're going to look at
Department of Defense
and some of the other agencies.
And people think defense and
HBCUs?
Yes, ROTC programs, for example,
right?
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
SOPHIA NELSON: So, I think what
the Trump
administration is going to do is
shrewd.
They're going to look for
existing pockets
of money that, under past
executive orders,
as you know, direct agencies to
make sure
that HBCUs are fully funded.
And they haven't been.
That's the challenge.
So, what I want America to
understand is that
the legislation or actually the
executive
action has been there
consistently.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
SOPHIA NELSON: But there is no
enforcement
of what the agencies are doing
with the dollars.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: And that's
why it matters.
SOPHIA NELSON: Therein is what
I'm hopeful
about, that at least they're
going to take
the look and say, let's find
what we're doing
in the agencies and let's get
this money directed
in where it's supposed to go.
And I really want to talk about
the R&D and
the FFRDCs and all the stuff
that most HBCU
presidents don't even know
about, tragically.
There is a lot of money in the
R&D space.
Our country spends $30 billion,
with a B,
a year in R&D that goes to Johns
Hopkins,
Stanford, Harvard, Yale.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right, $1.5 billion,
right.
SOPHIA NELSON: And the HBCUs get
about $15
million to $30 million of that.
That's tragic.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: And let me
just point
out, too, it's important, the
executive side
of the house, but ultimately the
White House
has a small budget.
It can recommend a budget.
Ultimately, we have got to get
over to Congress,
which is why the first day was
at the White
House.
The second day was the HBCU
fly-in being hosted
by the Republican leadership at
the Library
of Congress.
That's what's important, because
it's all
going to hit.
The president releases his
budget in the next
six or eight weeks.
And then it goes over to
Congress.
We have got to get the money no
only authorized,
but then appropriated.
SOPHIA NELSON: Let's talk about
politics here
a little bit, too.
If Trump is able, President
Trump -- let me
give him his proper respect,
because I was
on that with Obama.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
SOPHIA NELSON: If President
Trump is able
to gain ground here and show
that he's able
to direct moneys and come up
with some of
the R&D dollars and give this
more of a presence,
he's going to score some points
with an community
right now, an African-American
community,
that I think, after the last
election, is
a little bit not sure of which
way to go.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
That's right.
SOPHIA NELSON: You saw this with
the DNC's
direction with Ellison vs.
Perez.
And I think that there was --
and, you know,
Stephanie Rawlings-Blake wasn't
reelected.
And so it was interesting.
African-Americans lost power,
although he's
vice chair.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
SOPHIA NELSON: There was a sense
that we're
the most loyal voting bloc that
the Democrats
have, and what are we getting
for it?
So Trump is being shrewd.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, speaking
of that, the
state of HBCUs is something that
the community
was even critical of Mr. Obama,
or President
Obama, for pointing out.
On the plus side, it is
absolutely training
some of the leadership that
exists in the
African-American community
today.
And on the minus side, the
graduation rates
for students just aren't where
you want it
to be.
So, and quite a few of these
schools are in
deep red ink.
So, how do you get them back
into even a position
of stability before you can get
them to thrive?
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: It's funny
that you
mention that.
That was the first thing that we
asked for
when we met with the president
and with the
congressional group this
morning.
It was money.
The fact of the matter is, it
takes resources,
significant resources, to
graduate students
who come out of pre-K through
12, secondary
systems, where they were
underprepared.
You can't expect to finish --
these kids come
in behind.
So, our schools have an
extremely heavy lift.
And that lift costs money.
We're not institutions with huge
endowments
that can put a ton of resources
around getting
Johnny ready so that he
graduates in four
years and is prepared to go into
the workplace.
We might take six years.
And that costs more money.
So, how do you do that when
you're historically
underfunded, currently
underfund, and you're
enrolling a disproportionately
high group
of people who come from
poor-performing K-12
systems?
SOPHIA NELSON: And I think there
has to be
a place for public-private
partnership, companies
like Intel or AT&T.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.:
Absolutely, who benefit
from this.
SOPHIA NELSON: STEM professional
companies,
right, that are severely
underrepresented
with people that look like you
and me.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
SOPHIA NELSON: And so I think
those companies
need to help these colleges
develop centers
of excellence and things like
that, that we
have to start thinking out of
the box, because,
as you said, HBCUs don't have
the endowment
that the Ivies do or even some
of the big
schools like you or I went to.
They just don't have it.
(CROSSTALK)
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's
right.
SOPHIA NELSON: And so, if there
is no money,
it's toothless.
But I do think that this
administration is
being wise to say, look, the
executive orders,
like I said, starting with
President Herbert
Walker Bush forward, they have
all directed
the money there, but it's not
flowing towards...
(CROSSTALK)
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: Well, it's
not been
appropriated.
That's the issue.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But how do you
make sure
that this doesn't become
toothless and it
doesn't -- because you still
need the face
time.
You still need the time to talk
to the secretaries
of education and all these
different departments
to say, hey, here's those R&D
dollars that
could come this way, too.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: That's the
number one
thing.
That's why it's so important to
be in the
White House.
When they're having these staff
meetings,
when everybody is going over to
meet with
the president, they have got the
walk past
that White House initiative on
HBCUs.
It's far easier for them not to
think about
it, because out of sight, out of
mind, when
they're sitting three levels
down at the Department
of Education.
So, for the people who question
why it's so
important, it's not about an
address in many
ways.
It's about who else is at that
address that
you're moving too.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Johnny Taylor,
Sophia Nelson, thank you both.
SOPHIA NELSON: Thank you.
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR JR.: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just days ago,
the EPA's new
administrator, Scott Pruitt,
promised an aggressive
rollback of environmental
regulations that
had been put in place by former
President
Obama.
The future, he said, ain't what
it used to
be.
President Trump made good on his
and Pruitt's
pledge today with an order to
dismantle a
controversial Obama rule about
smaller bodies
of water in the U.S.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It's called
the waters of
the United States rule, and it
has to do with
which smaller bodies of water,
like streams
and wetlands, should be
regulated and protected
by the federal government under
the Clean
Water Act.
That question has been litigated
in court
battles for years.
And so for more on what today's
move is all
about, I'm joined now by Juliet
Eilperin,
who's been reporting on this for
The Washington
Post.
Juliet, welcome back to the
"NewsHour."
Before we get into the rollback,
can you tell
me what this rule is really
about?
And this was, as I understand
it, a very big
part of Obama's environmental
legacy.
JULIET EILPERIN, The Washington
Post: This
is a 2015 rule, which has been
subject to
litigation, which tries to
clarify what, as
you alluded to, has been really
a 30-year
battle over what jurisdiction
the federal
government has over these
smaller streams,
some are intermittent, some
wetlands, and
essentially what the federal
government can
tell Americans, including
farmers, ranchers,
homebuilders, what they can and
cannot do,
even when it has to do with
private property,
because it has implications for
smaller water
bodies that are crucial water
supply for larger
water bodies across the United
States.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, is this
about a rule
that is trying to protect these
waters from
pollution?
Is that the issue here?
JULIET EILPERIN: Partially, it's
pollution,
but what it pertains to many
often is whether
they can be drained or filled
in.
All of those actions, which are
in some ways
the inevitable product of these
operations
that happen in various different
sectors of
the economy, have implications
for whether
that water will then flow into
larger water
bodies.
And so it is usually a
restriction on whether
you can drain something or dig
up something,
as opposed to, for example, just
dumping in
pollutants into a small water
body, although,
technically, it could apply to
that as well.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I see.
I know that a lot of farmers and
businesses
and developers have said that
this rule was
hugely burdensome to them.
Was this an issue primarily of
cost to them,
or confusion about what rules
were covered?
What was the issue?
JULIET EILPERIN: It was a
combination of both
the costs that they might have
to incur, but
also whether they were permitted
to do something
or not.
So, you had -- one thing that's
difficult
is essentially these activities
were being
decided on a case-by-case basis,
and so you
had individual operators,
whether you're talking
about someone who is operating a
gravel pit
or trying to expand a parking
lot or do something
on his or her ranch -- all of
those folks
were engaged in conversations
with the Environmental
Protection Agency and the Army
Corps of Engineers.
And sometimes the decisions
didn't go the
way they wanted to.
There were fines imposed on
them.
And so there were these
long-running disputes
happening across the country
where the federal
government was saying, that in
order to protect
these sources of water, they
couldn't do things
or had to pay for some of the
actions that
they undertook.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I understand a
lot of environmental
groups and some sporting groups
have been
very critical of this rollback.
What is their complaint?
JULIET EILPERIN: Their argument
-- and there
certainly are a lot of them --
is that these
water bodies, though it might be
inconvenient
to have restrictions, were
crucial habitat
for everything from waterfowl,
many migratory
birds, aquatic species, as well
as a source
of drinking water for millions
of Americans.
And so these groups, primarily
outdoor recreation
groups, as well as many
environmental groups,
worked extensively during the
Obama administration
to get them to finalize this
rule, in the
hopes that there would be an
overarching standard
that could be applied across the
country that
would provide more stringent
protections for
these streams and wetlands.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, with
President Trump's
order, this doesn't immediately
undue the
rule.
Like, tomorrow, the rule doesn't
disappear,
right?
JULIET EILPERIN: It doesn't,
although the
Sixth Circuit has put a
nationwide stay on
the rule, so the rule has not
gone into effect
and will not go into effect.
And, in fact, the order that
President Trump
signed instructs the attorney
general to ask
that court to simply hold that
lawsuit in
abeyance, essentially freezing
this rule further,
while the two agencies that are
charged with
overseeing it look at whether
they can undo
it, although that again is an
extensive process
and will spur more lawsuits
going forward.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Juliet Eilperin
of The Washington Post, thanks
so much.
JULIET EILPERIN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
documenting the
civil rights movement through
powerful images;
and airlifting bison to a new
home.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But first:
With stepped-up
enforcement along the
U.S.-Mexican border,
there is more anxiety among
immigrant communities
that families members with
different status
might be separated.
In New Mexico, one small
binational community
along the border is working hard
to keep families
connected through schools.
From Public Media's Fronteras
desk and PBS
station KRWG, Simon Thompson,
originally from
Australia, brings us this
report.
SIMON THOMPSON: Daylight hasn't
even broken,
but 500 children who live in
Palomas, Mexico,
are up and on their way to
school.
Their commute is not typical.
They must first cross the
international border
into the U.S.
They show their U.S. passports
and birth certificates.
Customs and Immigration
officials inspect
their school bags.
Then they're bussed to school in
Luna County,
New Mexico.
Lizett Preciado is a senior at
Deming High
School in Luna County.
A U.S. citizen, she's lived in
Palomas with
her parents for seven years.
LIZETT PRECIADO, Student: It was
good to be
able to go to school there.
And, like, there's more
opportunities to study
and to have a better job in the
future.
SIMON THOMPSON: Lizett and her
family moved
to Palomas from Colorado, after
her mother,
Rosa Marie, was deported for
being in the
United States illegally.
ROSA MARIA PRECIADO, Mother
(through translator):
I felt really bad, really badly,
because I
have four children who are
citizens of the
United States, and my husband is
a resident.
I didn't want to go back to live
in Mexico.
I know it is my country, but
life in Mexico
in really hard.
SIMON THOMPSON: Preciado and her
husband,
Ramon, makes their living in
Palomas raising
goats.
Ramon still crosses occasionally
back into
the U.S. to work.
Preciado says having her
children educated
in the U.S. was important to
her, and that's
why they settled in Palomas.
ROSA MARIA PRECIADO (through
translator):
I came to Palomas because of a
friend who
said Palomas would be a good
option to live
with my children.
It is easy to cross into the
United States,
and there is a bus to take them
to school.
SIMON THOMPSON: Armando Chavez
is the principal
of Columbus Elementary in Luna
County.
He says the school district
usually sees an
influx of students when states
enact strict
immigration laws, as Arizona did
in 2010.
ARMANDO CHAVEZ, Principal,
Columbus Elementary:
We are sometimes the holding
spot for them,
for them to fix the papers
correctly.
We are dealing with children
that come from
South Dakota, Missouri.
It can be any state that they
come, but we
embrace our children that come
to our door
every day.
SIMON THOMPSON: School districts
in Texas
and California also allow
students living
in Mexico to come to school.
But they often charge
out-of-district fees
or are private.
For the U.S. citizen-students
coming from
Palomas to school in Luna
County, the education
is free.
Many teachers in the Luna County
schools crossed
the border as students.
Ricardo Gutierrez teaches the
fifth grade
at Columbus Elementary, the
school he attended
as a child.
RICARDO GUTIERREZ, Teacher: So
now it's my
turn to give back to the
community.
SIMON THOMPSON: Gutierrez says
keeping parents
engaged in their children's
education is the
biggest challenge.
He opens his restaurant in
Palomas for parent-teacher
conferences via Skype.
And for this year's graduation
ceremony, he
hosted a live watch party for
parents that
can't cross.
But not everybody living in the
Luna County
area thinks that state money
should be used
to educate students who don't
live in the
United States.
RUSS HOWELL, Chair, Republican
Party of Luna
County: They are getting a free
education.
SIMON THOMPSON: Luna County
Republican Party
chair Russ Howell says
allowances like the
one being made by the school
district motivate
people to exploit birthright
citizenship.
RUSS HOWELL: They don't live in
the United
States, so that forces the state
of New Mexico
to pay for their education, as
well as those
of us that are taxed to pay for
them too.
SIMON THOMPSON: The New Mexico
State Constitution
requires public schools to be
open to all
the children of school age,
regardless of
residence.
Principal Chavez says, if there
are concerns
about students not paying their
fair share,
that is more reason to make sure
they're getting
a good education.
ARMANDO CHAVEZ: They are going
to more than
likely live in the United
States.
We want to educate them.
We want to get them to the
highest level of
education possible, so they can
be successful,
and so they can become
productive members
and contribute back.
SIMON THOMPSON: Rosa Maria
Preciado says her
three oldest children are
already making their
contributions.
Her oldest daughter serves in
the U.S. military
and her two sons have careers in
engineering
and manufacturing.
ROSA MARIA PRECIADO (through
translator):
I am very proud, because I have
a lot of family,
and almost none of their
children graduated
from anything, not even high
school.
And I have two that graduated.
And they have their careers.
That has made me really proud
and it has given
me a lot of happiness.
SIMON THOMPSON: Lizett is
scheduled to graduate
next spring, and plans to study
engineering
at Colorado State.
Preciado hopes an immigration
pardon waiver
she is eligible for in two years
will allow
the whole family to reunite in
the U.S.
But there are no guarantees.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Simon Thompson
in Luna County, New Mexico.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We often think of
history as
words recorded in a textbooks,
but some of
the most powerful stories of our
past are
told through images.
As David C. Barnett from
WVIZ/PBS ideastream
in Cleveland reports, an exhibit
at the Maltz
Museum of Jewish documents a
crucial period
in the civil rights movement of
the 1960s
through the work of nine
photographers.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Martin Luther
King Jr. led
about 25,000 people into
Montgomery, Alabama,
in March of 1965 as part of a
demonstration
to promote voting rights.
Government officials in several
Southern states
were trying to suppress the
African-American
vote by making it difficult to
register.
Historian Leslie Kelen says a
rigged literacy
test often made it impossible.
LESLIE KELEN, Center for
Documentary Expression
and Art: White people who also
took the literacy
test were almost always passed.
And about 98 percent of the
black people failed.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Kelen is
executive director
for the Utah-based Center for
Documentary
Expression and Art, which has
organized a
traveling photo exhibition which
tells the
story of that voting rights
march and other
civil rights events of the
mid-1960s.
Currently on display at
Cleveland's Maltz
Museum of Jewish heritage, the
exhibition
gives a behind-the-scenes look
at everything
from quiet moments to violent
confrontations.
The Montgomery demonstration
brings many memories
back to 81-year-old Otis Moss
Jr., who marched
with King and for 33 years was
pastor of Cleveland's
Olivet Institutional Baptist
Church.
Reverend Ross recalls that a
previous protest
had resulted in a vicious attack
by state
troopers, so he had mixed
emotions as the
march approached the city.
OTIS MOSS JR., Former Pastor,
Olivet Institutional
Baptist Church: It was a great
moment of anticipation,
acknowledgment of the danger,
but also fully
aware of the necessity.
DAVID C. BARNETT: As it turned
out, they walked
into Alabama's capital city
without incident,
thanks in part to the powerful
images of earlier
violence that were printed and
broadcast around
the world.
And it didn't hurt that the
federal government
had sent armed troops to
accompany the demonstrators.
The films and photographs
focused global attention
on the marchers and their
safety.
OTIS MOSS JR.: I think within
the civil rights
community was a sense that now
all of America
and the world can see what we
have been experiencing
for decades.
Here is the undeniable recording
of human
brutality that many people
believed never
happened.
The picture becomes a message.
DAVID C. BARNETT: A year
earlier, in June
of 1964, a Mississippi voter
registration
drive known as Freedom Summer
attracted over
1,000 volunteers from outside
the state, including
a prominent Jewish clergyman
from Cleveland.
ELLEN RUDOLPH, Maltz Museum of
Jewish Heritage:
Rabbi Arthur Lelyveld went down
the participate
in Freedom summer.
He was a rabbi at Fairmount
Temple.
And he wanted to do what he
could to help.
And he was beaten.
He happened to actually be with
a photographer
that day.
And after he was beaten up and
the photographer
was there, he told them to take
a picture
and to capture that moment.
DAVID C. BARNETT: David
Kordalski has spent
over to 30 years thinking about
the power
of images and how best to use
them in print.
DAVID KORDALSKI, Creative
Director, Crain's
Cleveland Business: I think a
photographer's
role is to take people where
they can't go.
But in this particular case,
there is a large
swathe of America that just
didn't know, never
really been covered before in
such a way.
And to get there, and have a
front-row seat
to history bought there in the
power of a
still frame is just an absolute
remarkable
feat.
DAVID C. BARNETT: These pictures
of protests
and sometimes violent
confrontations between
citizens and police are a part
of America's
historical record, but some of
the events
of 50 years ago, documented by
photography,
certainly have a familiar ring.
ELLEN RUDOLPH: We can't look at
these images
without thinking about what is
happening today.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Like the image
captured
by a security camera showing the
shooting
of 12-year-old Tamir Rice on
Cleveland's West
Side.
This scene helped rekindle a
national discussion
about race and justice in the
same way that
some of these photos on display
at the Maltz
Museum did 50 years ago.
Otis Moss is taken with
something else he
sees in these photographs.
It's a different sort of
historical lesson
that would be hard to explain in
the text
of a history book.
OTIS MOSS JR.: She is giving
literacy instruction,
preparing this individual to
write his name
in order that he will be able to
register
and vote.
It inspires me beyond
description to see this
scene and look at her hand over
his hand.
It inspires me beyond
description to see this
scene and look at her hand over
his hand.
There is a volume of history
tied into this
one photograph.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Images have
the power to
tell us stories about ourselves
and others
in a way that words can't always
capture.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
David C. Barnett
in Cleveland.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye,
that might
be of interest to you, too.
More than a century after they
disappeared,
bison have been reintroduced to
Canada's oldest
national park.
The operation took a decade of
planning, but
went off without a hitch earlier
this month.
We reached out to the man in
charge for insights
on the project and where it goes
from here.
KARSTEN HEUER, Banff National
Park: My name
is Karsten Heuer.
And I am the bison
reintroduction project
manager for Banff National Park.
Banff is Canada's first national
park.
It's a very mountainous, rugged
landscape.
You know, it has glaciers and
spectacular
peaks, not unlike Glacier
National Park in
the U.S.
So, bison, plains bison
particularly, were
here over 140 years ago, before
they went
locally extinct, at the same
time as bison
went extinct across the Great
Plains.
And, obviously, with one big
major player,
Canada's largest land mammal
missing, we wanted
to try to restore that animal
onto the landscape.
Our seed herd was from Elk
Island National
Park.
There's 400 animals there, in a
plains bison
herd.
They are probably the most
genetically pure
plains bison after Yellowstone
in terms of
their wildness.
We targeted 16 animals, the vast
majority
of which are young females, all
of whom are
pregnant, and then we brought in
six young
bulls as well.
And so we have a breeding herd,
because we
have been told the single most
important thing
you can do to really make those
animals anchor
to their new home is to have
them calve there
successfully.
One of the logistical
constraints we had to
overcome in this translocation
from Elk Island
to Banff was the fact that there
is no road
access into the backcountry of
Banff National
Park.
Where we are staging this
reintroduction,
we could get fairly close with
vehicles, you
know, within 20 miles, but we
couldn't get
right into the reintroduction
zone.
So we opted to do some
modifications on 10-foot-long
shipping containers.
They could be plucked off the
back of these
trucks one at a time and then
flown into the
backcountry.
And that flight was new for
everybody, the
bison and us.
So, we had to do things like
develop a parachute
system with a helicopter company
that would
drag behind the containers and
prevent them
from spinning while they were in
the air.
And then the helicopters left,
and it was
nice and quiet and settled, and
not a lot
going on, and then the
containers were all
opened.
And that was a pretty magical
moment, when
these bisons stepped out and
their hooves
hit the ground, back in a place
where they
haven't been in over 140 years.
We are actually going to feed
and support
these animals for the next 16
months, so they
can calve twice and really
anchor down into
this place as their new home
range, before
we release them into the larger
1,200-square
kilometer reintroduction zone.
As a biologist, to have the
opportunity to
work on a dream project where
you are bringing
back North America's largest
land mammals
to Canada's first national park,
tremendous
sense of accomplishment.
The bigger human accomplishment
is to have
the foresight to actually make
these kind
of efforts unnecessary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That is just
extraordinary,
you have to say.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes, what a
lot of work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
Good for them.
And on the "NewsHour" online
right now: Over
the last five years, the
nation's opioid crisis
has gained momentum, despite
federal, state
and local officials' attempts to
control it.
We recently visited Baltimore,
which has been
held up as an example for its
efforts to prevent
overdose deaths, but is still
suffering from
its ongoing crisis.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that's the
"NewsHour"
for tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here at 9:00
p.m. Eastern for special live
coverage of
the president's address to a
joint session
of Congress.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.